
Code and test comments (only for team use)

Code design:

- Code is made testable by injecting two objects:
* An object of type Random
* An object of type Clock.
The Random object is for generating a random number, which is used for creating the randomness
in all aspects of the program. In anddition to the random objects,
date of birth also makes use of the clock, except for date of birht,
which also makes use of the Clock object to generate dates.

By injecting clock and random into our functions
during tests, we can verify the exact output of the code under test,
such as Person names or birthdate.

Code design issues:

- The code uses the Random object by repeatedly calling
it inside different functions. In the current implementation
of the FakePersonGenerator and FakePersonService,
there are therefore no guarantees
that the output will remain the same
if the order of execution in the code is changed,
even when using the same seed for the Random object.
Our code is therefore highly vulnerable to changes in the order of execution.
This will make out tests flaky, if they test exact output values.

Notice that clock is passed to the constructor, while the random object is
passed the the functions that use it.

Regarding the clock, this means that in the test a fixed date in the past is used,
while in the code, it get passed with the current time:
public FakePersonGenerator() {
    this(Clock.systemDefaultZone());
}
this ensures that in production, the date of birth will always be some point in the past,
it can never be in the future, but it can be close to the present moment.

Regarding the random object, this means that in the tests, the same random object (with the same state) is used,
regardless of the order of execution of the tests.



Integration tests:

- We have bee handled to datasets
for use in the project. A list of
objects in json format
and a database of locations in Denmark.

- regarding the database, our tests
require docker to run during tests.
This is more realistic than mocking the database,
But make test setup less

Pros of mocking the database:
  1. Fast test execution
Mocks avoid network calls, disk I/O, and query parsing.
Your integration tests run almost as fast as unit tests.
  2. No external dependencies
Developers don’t need Docker installed or running.
CI doesn’t need a DB service configured.
  3. Deterministic behavior
Mocks return exactly what you tell them to.
No flaky tests due to DB startup time, migrations, or data drift.
  4. Easy to simulate edge cases
You can force:
timeouts
constraint violations
unexpected nulls
duplicate keys
…without crafting special DB states.

pros of not mocking the database:
  1. Realistic integration
You test:
real SQL
real constraints
real migrations
real connection handling
real performance characteristics
This is what integration tests are for.
  2. Catches schema issues early
If the schema changes, your tests fail immediately.
  3. Confidence in production behavior
If it works in CI with a real DB, it’s far more likely to work in production.
  4. Great with tools like Testcontainers
You get isolated, reproducible DB instances per test suite.


Regarding the .json document, we regard it internal to the system
(unlike the database, which we regard as a proxy for a typical external database,
where the exact content is unknown to the system).
Therefore the .json objects are used for unit tests.




